and Joseph went and told Pharaoh my
father and my brothers their flocks and
their herds and all that they possess
have come from the land of Canaan and
indeed they are in the land of Goshen
and he took five men from among his
brothers and presented them to Pharaoh
and Pharaoh said to his brothers what is
your occupation your servants are
shepherds both we and also our fathers
we have come to dwell in the land
because your servants have no pasture
for their flocks for the famine is
severe in the land of Canaan
now therefore please let your servants
dwell in the land of Goshen and Pharaoh
spoke to Joseph your father and your
brothers have come to you the land of
Egypt is before you have your father and
brothers dwell in the best of the land
let them dwell in the land of Goshen and
if you know any competent men among them
then make them chief herdsmen over my
livestock and Joseph brought in his
father Jacob and set him before Pharaoh
and Jacob blessed Pharaoh Pharaoh said
to Jacob how old are you the days of the
years of my pilgrimage are 130 years few
and evil have been the days of the years
of my life and they have not attained to
the days of the years of the life of my
fathers in the days of their pilgrimage
so Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out
from before Pharaoh and Joseph situated
his father and his brothers and gave
them a possession in the land of Egypt
in the best of the land in the land of
Rameses as Pharaoh had commanded
then Joseph provided his father his
brothers and all his father's household
with bread according to the number in
their families now there was no bread in
all the land for the famine was very
severe
so but the land of Egypt in the land of
Canaan languished because of the famine
and Joseph gathered up all the money
that was found in the land of Egypt and
in the land of Canaan for the grain
which they bought and Joseph brought the
money into Pharaoh's house so when the
money failed in the land of Egypt and in
the land of Canaan all the Egyptians
came to Joseph give us bread for why
should we die in your presence for the
money has failed give your livestock
when I will give you bread for your
livestock if the money is gone
so they brought their livestock to
Joseph and Joseph gave them bread in
exchange for the horses the flocks the
cattle of the herds and for the donkeys
thus he fed them with bread in exchange
for all their livestock that year when
that year had ended they came to him the
next year and said to him we will not
hide from my Lord that our money is gone
my lord also has our herds of livestock
there is nothing left in the sight of my
lord but our bodies and our lands why
should we die before your eyes both we
and our land by us and our land for
bread and we and our land will be
servants of Pharaoh give us seed that we
may live and not die that the land may
not be desolate when Joseph bought all
the land of Egypt for Pharaoh for every
man of the Egyptians sold his field
because the famine was severe upon them
so the land became pharaoh's and as for
the people he moved them into the cities
from one end of the borders of Egypt to
the other end only the land of the
priests he did not die for the priests
had rations allotted to them by Pharaoh
and they ate their rations which Pharaoh
gave them therefore they did not sell
their lands and Joseph said to the
people indeed I have bought you and your
land this day for Pharaoh look here is
seed for you and you shall sow the land
and it shall come to pass in the harvest
that you shall give one-fifth to Pharaoh
4/5 shall be your own seed for the field
and for your food for those of your
households and it's food for your little
ones
you've saved our lives let us find favor
in the sight of my Lord and we will be
Pharaoh servants and Joseph made it a
law over the land of Egypt to this day
but Pharaoh should have one-fifth except
for the land of the priests only which
did not become Pharaoh's so Israel dwelt
in the land of Egypt in the country of
Goshen and they had possessions there
and grew and multiplied exceedingly and
Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17
years so the length of Jacob's life was
147 years when the time drew near that
Israel must die he called his son Joseph
now if I have found favor in your sight
please put your hand under my thigh and
deal kindly and truly with me please do
not bury me in Egypt but let me lie with
my fathers we shall carry me out of
Egypt and bury me in their burial place
I will do as you have said swear to me
and he swore to him so Israel bowed
himself on the head of the bed
[Music]
you